---
title: "Android 13: Basic Impressions"
date: 2022-12-14T15:04:02Z
draft: true
aliases: [ "/2022/12/android-13.html" ]
featuredImage: 
tags: [android, 13, basic, impressions, phone]
scores :
    -
        - Hackability
        - 2/10
    -
        - Fun
        - 6/10
    -
        - Speed
        - 5/10
    -
        - Overall
        - 5/10
---

# It's Out! What's it all about?

With the release of Android 13 just the other day, I thought it would be a good idea to go through and review it.

For all intents and purposes, this release is as incremental as one would expect a standard minor release would be, but that's perhaps as the Android development team intended it. A few UI elements have changed and a couple of small new features have been added, but it's nothing groundbreaking.

Further to the updates introduced around the 11/12 era, installing apps from free sources automatically is still not possible, and manually is tiresome and time-consuming.

# What I wanted from this release

I was hoping that this release would come with a couple more tools to use third party repositories (and by this I mean be able to properly integrate F-Droid without completely hacking through the system and rendering NFC payments useless), but sadly this does not yet exist.

# UI niceties

Larger notification icons came as a nice surprise, but it's still awkward to choose and expand one's notification icons, another feature I wanted to see in this release.

# The Settings app provides a new "Modes and Routines" feature, but is it really new?

Modes seems to be just doing the job that the sleep mode would otherwise do, but also add extra modes such as driving, exercise, relax and work. All this appears to really do is turn off some notifications to limit distractions.

Routines seems to have a bunch of quite useful "if-this-then-that" type stuff, featuring 